That does not make a person unattractive
as far as I'm concerned. It's Timothy
Shalom who does nothing for me in that
way, but like I mean just objectively
please. I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball. Today
we like some mart
hey
Marty Supreme. It's a hit. Back hand,
forehead.
It's a hit at the box office and the
critics like it and so do the people who
give out the Oscars because when the
Oscar nominations came out last week,
the folks at the Academy Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences just gave it a lot of
the big ones, including best picture,
best director, that's for Josh Safy, and
best actor for Timothy Shalomé aka Marty
Supreme. I am all for this. the movie
and Marty, they, you know, vaulted right
over my expectations for what I want
from a movie. I just had a really good
time with this thing. And it's basically
about this ambitious Jewish kid.
>> And what do you plan to do if this whole
dream of yours doesn't work out?
>> That doesn't even enter my
consciousness.
>> Pingpong Champ on the Lower East Side of
Manhattan in 1952, just a few years
after the Holocaust. But over the past
few weeks, it's become pretty clear that
a lot of people watching this movie
really do not like this movie. They hate
it. Just look at the comments on Manola
Dargas' review for the New York Times. I
mean, the comments are intense. And so
much of what people hate is Marty
himself. That's who you think of me?
>> Yes.
>> My friend Sasha Weiss has a lot of
thoughts about what is going on here.
And so she's basically gonna come and
host with me this week to try to I don't
know, work it out. Sasha, welcome back
to Cannonball.
>> Thanks for doing this.
>> Thank you for having me. So, people are
just having really, really strong
reactions to this movie. And actually,
maybe I shouldn't have been surprised
because the person I saw it with, dear
friend, in the middle of the movie,
>> I know who that person is, by the way.
>> You okay? You know who it is.
>> I'm kind of not surprised. Well, I was
totally taken and absorbed and she
started to get physically ill because
this would concern me
>> the the the violence of the movie, some
of the chaos of the movie, the the the
sheer velocity of the movie and she
almost walked out.
>> She was having that physical of a
response.
>> So I
>> She sounds like some of the people in
the comments
review. I was going to say the
commenters were really divided and I
actually rounded up a few of my
favorites and I I thought we should read
some of them just to get a sense of like
just the violence of the response to
this thing.
>> I'm fascinated by this. Go. Let's I I'll
you can read one.
>> I'll read I'll read an unhappy customer.
KDM from North Carolina says, "I just
walked out of this movie. My god, this
reviewer owes me $22 plus fines for an
egregiously pretentious review." Oh, not
finding Manola Dargas. What are we
doing?
>> Even on the fence about it. Don't do it.
There are no redeeming qualities to this
movie. Think of the most obnoxious
person you know behaving at their very
worst for two and a half straight hours
and you're trapped in a room with them
and can't leave.
>> That is this movie. Except I could
leave. Hallelujah.
>> You want to look at these?
>> Uh yeah. I mean
this is Julian B from Massachusetts.
What a what if I would never say Wesley
M from Pennsylvania. That is an
interesting choice.
>> Like I'd like people to know I'm from
Pottstown. I'm from Worcester. Anyway,
Julian B from Massachusetts.
>> As someone who enjoys films with with
some grit in them and thinks Timothy
Shalomé is an incredible actor, I still
walked out partway through a lot of
exiting. Um, after an hour and a half of
this over-the-top mishmash of violence,
not redeemed by its thoroughly unlikable
main character and absurdly blood
splattered digressions, all I wanted to
do was go home and take a shower to wash
off the unpleasantness. Julian B, I hope
you got your shower. I get it. I
understand. I understand why people
might be leaving this movie. I am not a
tremendous lover of the person who made
it, Josh Safy. And you know, he's part
of this duo of filmmakers. He and his
brother Benny. Uncut Gems famously uh is
a Josh and Benny Safy movie. They're New
Yorkers. They make movies about New York
City. The films are gritty. They're
scuzzy. And in addition to that, the
people at the center of these movies
aren't people who,
at least in this century, tend to get
centered, right?
>> Let's let's let's pause there a little
bit and get into Marty as a character.
>> Not yet.
>> Do you have a job?
>> No.
>> Back hand, back hand, forehead. Because
I do think that a big part of what
people are responding to is a what some
people consider a deeply unlikable
character. A character who is
selfish, striving
>> out for himself. I mean, I think he has
many other dimensions, but maybe let's
just start by describing the main
character of this film, Marty Mouser.
Give give me paint a picture.
>> I mean, he's one of those ratat talkers.
Like, he never shuts up.
>> You know, I'm something of a performer,
too.
>> Are you? Yeah. You don't believe me?
>> I
What? What?
>> And the thing about Timothy Shalomé's
performance is that I think he's doing
so much talking that his mouth stays
open for most of the movie.
>> It's true. He has this kind of like
open-mouthed
stare. Uh, and it's a bit unattractive.
I mean, he's so appealing, but actually
he manages to be a little bit
unappealing physically in this movie,
too. But
>> I mean, go on about a little bit. I
mean, they've given him a unibrow and
and and a little bit of acne, right?
Like,
>> that does not make a person unattractive
as far as I'm concerned. And it's
Timothy Shalom who does nothing for me
in that way. But like, I mean, just
objectively, please. Anyway, I think
what people are having a hard time with
with respect to Marty Mouser as a
character is he apologizes for nothing.
Um he doesn't have a lot of remorse,
regret, chagrin. He is unabashed. He is
shameless. And if he wants something, he
is he is going to try to obtain it.
Whether it's money that he thinks he's
owed by his boss at this shoe store,
which is his first crime, at least the
first one we see him commit, or making
some movie star fall in love with him.
Well, I think m maybe it's also worth
saying that
Marty Mouser is a Jewish man who
>> yes
>> is, you know, in some ways
a strive, an immigrant stver, very
familiar to us. He's a he's a low side
guy. He is um you know, wanting success.
He is willing to kind of play dirty.
He's he's willing to use every tool at
his disposal. He's resourceful. He's
canny. He's a He's a He's a kind of like
New York type, right?
>> Yes. Yes. I mean, I'm just thinking
about the ways in which his very
specific Jewishness
is is interacting with his like classic
American self-madeness, right?
>> But in either scenario, what we're
watching is a person at the bottom
>> claw his way to the top
>> or attempt to claw his way to the top.
But but he figures this. I do think it's
important to say that the movie does
leave a breadcrumb trail about its
Jewishness and and Marty's Jewish
aspiration. And it's important to say
that Marty figures his own ascent and
his will to triumph as a Jewish
>> thing. You know, he says at one point he
understands himself
>> he understands himself to be a Jewish
driver. And at one point he says he's
being interviewed by a a a British
journalist at a you know a London ping
pong tournament and he says I'm Hitler's
worst nightmare because I'm on top. I'm
here and I'm on top. So he figures his
and and you know to much to the disgust
and kind of like horror of this British
guy who's just a few years post
Holocaust who's like can people say
this? And Marty says I can say things
like this I'm Jewish. So his sort of
outrageousness and his sense of his own
ascent he is figuring as Jewish.
>> Yes. Yes. And I also think this is a
person who is deeply familiar to all
people here in this country because
these are the types of people who made
America America, right? Um
>> well, so maybe you're saying like a
resistance to Marty is a resistance to
sort of like being back close to the
ground again, being being back close to
that kind of fast talking, hustling,
trying to play every angle. You know,
this guy is just shameless. He'll do
whatever he wants. At the same time, for
me, this is part of what I love about
him, like his self-belief, his silver
tonged quality, his improvisatory
quality, like his charm that he can kind
of turn on or off at will, you know,
that that he can kind of like in one
setting. I guess I guess it's that like
whether he's moving in a kind of like
shoe store on the Lower East Side or a
two-bit motel or in this kind of
buttoned up world of table tennis, he is
always himself. even though he's lying
all the time, there's a kind of purity
to him. And I love watching Marty sell,
you know, like he says at one point,
>> I could sell shoes to an amputee. And he
can. And I actually feel like we should
watch a moment from the movie where he's
selling his friend's dad on one of his
schemes, which is actually kind of a
brilliant scheme. And you can kind of
see the charm of Marty Mouser.
>> Try to follow the white ball against the
white.
>> So he's trying to convince his friend's
dad to pay for the production of orange
ping pong balls. If I'm wearing a white
shirt, I'm wearing this. You can't see
the ball
>> because ping- pong balls are usually
white. But wouldn't it be a white
t-shirt?
>> Who can who can see me? Like, it's just
not It's like they've got this. It's not
a fair.
>> Now, imagine it with an orange ball,
which no one's ever thought of.
>> See, you're already following it way
better. Look at his eyes. See how his
eyes are looking?
>> Yeah. Look,
>> you're looking more engaged now. So,
that's what we want to do right now in
the world of table tennis. You're
obliged to wear black just so you can
follow the white ball. Look at this.
That's Ted Bailey.
>> Who's that?
>> That's the That's the number one ranked
player in the world right now. He's the
British champion. I've already beat him,
by the way. Now look at this. That's
Jack Kramer, number one tennis player.
What's the difference there?
>> All white.
>> He's an all-white. It's beautiful. To
me, that's luxury. To me, that's class.
You could sell that.
>> A custom ball like that is going to cost
a lot of money.
>> It's custom. It's original ball for an
original guy.
>> I love the pleasure of watching Marty
sell. And I'm with him all the way, even
though I know he's completely full of
[__]
>> Yeah, of course. This guy is is like
working
everybody and every at moment. And it
turns out to have like incredibly
grim consequences as the movie goes on.
And he
>> people losing limbs, fires starting,
violence of all kinds, shootouts. I
mean, the the kind of violence and chaos
follow this man in his wake. And it's
not
>> to and he's like it's the domino effect,
but he's he's not he's not participating
in violence. It just happens around him
in some way. He is somehow I don't know
if it's right to say he's the like head
domino, but like whatever whatever is
happening, he is like
a tile ahead of the like
>> and somehow he moves through all of that
with this prednatural grace, right?
>> Um and and and egotism but grace and
like without consequences. And and I
wonder as you said like is that part of
what bothers people?
>> I don't I don't know. I mean, I think
that this is like
this is New York to me and like maybe
New York's just not your city.
>> Well, can I ask a controversial question
that feels kind of kind of related? Like
I I wonder if some of the discomfort
that people feel here also has to do
with his Jewishness. And like
>> I think this is what's underneath some
of the like I mean and it's adjacent to
this question of like maybe it's not
your city, right? like like I feel like
on the one hand maybe a discomfort with
like a guy who embodies like some of the
ugliest stereotypes about Jews um and
like not not knowing what to
>> none of the comments specify that but
>> well actually some people think the
movie is like about anti-semitism which
I think we should we should talk more
about but but it's like you know it's
like
>> well it's definitely about anti-semitism
there are anti-semites in the movie.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. and we'll talk about
that. But like, you know, is it kind of
like the not not knowing what to do with
someone who who embodies these
stereotypes, also not liking that he's
so good at the hustle and and sort of
not liking yourself for not liking that?
I mean, I just wonder
>> if that is sort of bound up with this.
>> And I I also think that's something that
the movie is really aware of. Yes. you
know, its own Jewishness and this
feeling that he
>> embodies like some of the ugly
stereotypes about Jewish people and like
he's enacting them and embodying them.
>> The money grubbing,
>> the money grubbing, the scheming, you
know, the the wanting to take over the
world, the egotism, I mean, the the sort
of like sexual rapaciousness, all these,
you know, very ugly, enduring
stereotypes, and he's kind of he's being
them, you know, and and kind of not
knowing how to respond to that. and and
and kind of not knowing if we're
supposed to be rooting for him or
rooting against him, you know, and and I
think like the other sort of confusing
aspect is like there's there's a
touching aspect of Marty or at least the
world that he's situated in, right? Like
for me it's so retoolent of
>> like the world that my family came from,
you know, a lower east side of immigrant
Jews trying to find their place in
American life. You know, this is in
1952. It is seven years after the
Holocaust which is invoked many times in
the movie and in some really moving ways
right like this is a person who's
striving has a kind of existential
purpose you know and and even as he's
like a small-time hustler in some way he
positions himself as like an existential
hustler and like
>> for a Jewish person like me I I find it
extremely moving at moments you know and
and I think like maybe some people don't
know what to do with the mix of all that
stuff
>> maybe and I also think that
there might be a part of some people's
reaction that is just unfamiliar
with this kind of affronttery
not hiding its Jewishness, right? Like
where the thing giving this guy the
license to act this way
>> is his Jewishness, right? There is a
scene in this movie that I really want
to talk about with you because to me it
it unlocked the movie and it speaks so
directly to this character's really
complex relationship with his own
Jewishness and the movie's even more
complicated relationship with his
Jewishness.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> This particular scene which takes place
about 30 minutes into the movie. So it's
early in the movie kind of unlock the
whole thing. and what this scene is
doing for me reorients the whole movie
and tells us how to read Marty.
>> Okay, so I know the scene. Um, and
essentially, if memory is serving me,
Marty's gotten himself into the rits.
He's having dinner with his partner in
pingpong championship glory. His name's
Bella Kletsky and he's played by Gay
Aerorig. I'll come back to the
importance of the actor in a minute, but
they're having dinner and
you know,
>> Marty's having one of his Marty moments
and he's like, "You know what I'm gonna
do? I'm going to buy dinner for K Stone,
this actress I want to have sex with. I
I'm going to buy dinner for her whole
table, including her husband who's
sitting there." And her husband's a rich
man. The husband becomes aware that some
some things have been paid for. Comes
over to Marty's table and is like,
"Excuse me?
>> Excuse me? Do I know you?
>> I don't think so."
>> And you want to buy dinner for my entire
table tonight?
>> Yeah. Is that okay?
>> Why?
>> What do you mean why? Do I need a
reason?
>> And Marty's like, "I just want to thank
you."
>> It's my small way of saying thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah. Thank me for what specifically?
For all your products. Marty's like,
"Free your pens."
>> I mean, where would we be without pens?
>> Where would we be without pens? So,
Marty is like, he's running a little bit
of a con, right? Like, he wants to get
into bed with this guy's beautiful shika
wife.
>> He's played by Petro. He's messing with
this guy. And Marty kind of ropes him,
sort of seduces him into staying by kind
of talking with him. They're both from
New York. You know, this guy sort of
wearily amused by Marty.
>> What do you do? I'm a professional
athlete. Really? What sport?
>> Table tennis. Table tennis. That's a
sport.
>> Yeah, of course it is. I'm here
competing in the British Open. In fact,
I'm playing at Wembley tomorrow in front
of sold out crowd in the final against
Japan. I'm here representing the United
States.
>> Japan.
>> This is Kevin Olirri, by the way, of of
Shark Tank.
>> Of Shark Tank. Perfectly cast. And the
Kevin Olirri character notices that
Bella has a number on his arm.
>> And it's not just noticing. It's like,
oh, hey, you've got a I see you've got a
number on your arm. Like, it's a little
bit aggressive,
>> right? like it's some other like it's
any just any old tattoo. I notice I know
what that's all about. I know what this
Holocaust business is all about. And he
>> and and and a tense moment ensues or a
very a curious moment where this
character of Bella kind of in a pretty
dignified way says well well yeah I mean
I was in the camps and then the Kevin
Olirri character says you know with with
great animus um my son died liberating
you.
>> It's a little it's cocky though right?
>> Well he says it casually.
>> It's very jcular the way he says it. his
whole approach to this entire scene is a
little bit like it's a little um some
umbrage but also some like
oneupsmanship.
>> Yeah. And and and Kevin Olirri's
character, he's an avatar of the Wasp
world, right? Like this is someone who's
completely at home at the Ritz and Marty
then kind of sees an opportunity here. I
mean Marty at at one is kind of
protecting his friends and saying
actually the Soviets, you know,
liberated his camp. He's sort of has
eyes on Kay who's across the room. And
he and he says, you know, sort of as a
means of distraction. Why don't you tell
him the story, Bella, from your time in
the war?
>> And then this character of Bella
proceeds to tell a story about his time
at Avitz where he was recognized by a
guard because of his pingpong prowess.
He was a famous table tennis player and
this guard recognizes his talent and
kind of saves him by sending him off to
a you know corner in the woods of the
camp where he's alone and
>> I mean it's sort of like a classic story
of of a stroke of luck in the camps
right and and suddenly we flash back as
he starts to tell the story
>> to um a scene from the Holocaust of a
person in you know the pinstripe pajamas
>> prison uniform
>> prison uniform um and he tells that you
know he was in the woods. He was he was
taught to diffuse bombs or he was
working alone in the woods and one day
he follows a honeybee to a hive and he
recognizes that he can smoke out the
bees, take the honey and he smears it
all over his body and and the Kevin you
can hear the Kevin Olri character saying
why and the bellis says
>> in a voiceover he's still
>> in a voiceover so that I could go back
to my bunk and nourish all my bunk mates
and you see this harrowing extreme
extremely moving image of him taking off
his uniform, you know, this sticky body
being licked by 10 men.
>> Like many men. Yes. Yes.
>> And for me, I mean, I wept.
>> Mhm. Mhm. Mhm.
>> You know, it it was immediately, you
know, sort of plunged me into the
harrowing reality of what people
endured, you know, in this horrible
event of human history. But at the same
time, you know, the movie, I mean, it
works in so many complex ways. The movie
is playing it for its profoundity, but
it's also all a ploy for Marty to
distract this guy so that he can flirt
with his wife. And it and it's using the
Holocaust and the story, you know,
>> as a red herring.
>> As a red herring and and also as a kind
of oneupmanship, right? Like it's sort
of like, well, I'm gonna tell you my
story of victim, but it's a great story,
you know? I don't know. So, for me, it's
it it's played for its profoundity and
it's also blasphemously played
>> for laughs,
>> right? Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of
stuff happening in this sequence.
First of all, the actor playing
Klitschky, Gayer, was in this
very trying Holocaust movie called Son
of Saul.
Show
came out in 2015
and
the entire movie is sort of shot from
the point of view of Gayor's character.
So, it's extremely claustrophobic. You
spend the entire running time of this
movie trapped with these people in
Awitz. And he his character is another
exceptional Jew who has been given the
terrible terrible unthinkable job of
leading his fellow prisoners to the gas
chamber and then cleaning up after
its use. And so casting that guy to play
this guy to tell this story is is
another layer of you know kind of
referential complexity. But then there
is this other thing that I always
struggle with with movies about the
Holocaust,
>> which is that every new film that is
attempting to tell this story, the
challenge is how can I do
>> put my mark on the Holocaust,
>> right? How can I do a better job than
the other guys who came before me?
>> How can I top Steven Spielberg? How can
I top Roman Palansky? What is the new
>> How can I out terrible the terrible? how
and put my mark on it aesthetically and
make it make it full of fill it with
emotion.
>> So there's like a kind of inherent moral
reprehensibility to me
>> to representing it at all
>> to rep to doing it at all because it
becomes aesthetic sportsmanship
and not
the sort of moral consequences are
secondary to the attempt to outmaneuver
what has come before it. You know, Zone
of Interest is another one of these
movies that
>> which you can't help but admire, but but
that's part of it, right?
>> And and I mean, it's kind of brilliant
because there is the meta. I mean,
there's so many levels to what he's
doing here, but I think what you're
suggesting is that Josh Safy knows this
and he's also, you know, it's just one.
It's a very short sequence where we see
this imagery and it is extremely
harrowing and moving and and also, you
know, I think a bit erotic, which is
something we can get to too, right? But
he's he's sort of doing the required
historical reverence and at the same
time he's blaspheming it all at once.
>> All at once. You know, I watched that
entire sequence with my jaw dropped
because like think about the flex of
turning a thing that many directors
build their whole careers trying to
depict, right? like the the the pinnacle
of of several filmmakers film making
lives at least for a for a minute is
trying to figure out how to tell the
story tell a story of the Holocaust.
This guy's like yeah I'll give it to you
in 10 seconds.
I'll do it in 10 seconds. And that
itself is a kind of reprehensible the
flex like like just like yeah I did it I
showed it to you. But also then to say I
don't want this character and these
people to be trapped in the pity
associated with that event. Like I want
this character to live and be judged. I
want you to walk out, walk away from
him, hate him because he's this
individual guy who sucks.
>> Exactly.
>> Not like hold your sucking because he
comes from these people, right? That is
a 21st century choice. That is a 2025 to
me choice, right?
>> And to me like a deeply smidophilic
choice, right? Because
>> Huh. Say more about that. Because Marty
gets to be like whatever he is. He's not
he's not confined by Jewishness, right?
Like he's he's deeply Jewish and and we
can read him that way and he's asked to
be he's asking us to read him that way.
He's telling us that that he reads
himself that way, but he doesn't have to
be representative. He he can just be
himself and there's no other Marty
Supreme,
>> right? But for me, I mean, I'm trying to
think like as we're dissecting the utter
blasphemousness of this, like I'm trying
to figure out why I was also so moved by
it and why I also feel like it is the
skeleton key to this movie because I
think like there still is something
irreducibly and undeniably true about
the humanity of the story, right, that
he that Bella tells and and the act of
course of course performed and and and
being asked to kind of see and recognize
that and and This is also the reason why
you do make movies about these horrible
human events because to face them and to
kind of understand the extremity of them
and that this too is part of humanity
and part of our history. Like all of
that you're confronted with in this
moment in addition to all of Marty's,
you know, like horrendous venality and
ability to do like pull any kind of
[__] you know, and and like I I
love it that the two things can function
together. And I also think that like
this scene does clue us in to some kind
of like elemental insistence on life and
survival that is also Marty's. I mean,
it's a very different circumstance,
right? But but this is the spirit that
that flows into Marty's veins through
his peoplehood. And so you sort of
understand his striving like it's all
painted with this scene for me. And and
it's just moving, right? So, in addition
to to being kind of disgusted by Marty,
I'm also deeply moved by his incredible
life force and vitality. And for me, it
kind of like casts the rest of the the
movie with that kind of intensity and
vitality.
>> I mean, I feel like what you're talking
about, I mean, there's only really one
word for it. This movie is and it's a
very like I feel very Jewish oriented
word. Shameless, right? The movie has no
shame.
And I don't know, it's like that
shamelessness, you know, corresponds to
like a whole, you know, constellation of
of
Yeah. Yeah. Um All right. I have an
idea. I would love to think through
um as inspired by this movie like what
shamelessness
>> entails like what is like what is it
what does it do?
>> Essential quality of shamelessness.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What does it do in the
world?
>> We came up with a name for what we're
about to do.
>> Mhm.
>> IT'S CALLED THE SHAME GAME.
>> Or it's called the hall of shame.
>> The hall of shame.
That's how little shame we have. It's
got two names.
So,
I guess how it's going to work is you're
going to just like give me somebody who
is an epitome of shamelessness and we'll
talk about it.
>> Okay.
>> And I'll give you one and then you'll
give me one and I'll give you one back.
>> Okay. And we can decide like what
shamelessness is because I think it's a
complicated thing. Okay. First one I
think is pretty classic.
Another Jewish character,
Mickey Sabbath from the novel Sabbath
Theater by Philip Roth. One of my
all-time favorite characters.
>> It's the best Philip Roth novel.
>> It's the best Philip Roth novel. So,
this character is despicable. Mickey
Sabbath is a puppeteer in his 60s who
has recently been fired from his small
town university job because an affair of
an affair he had with a student. He is a
womanizer. He is um a complete
narcissist. He is kind of cruel to his
vulnerable alcoholic wife. He uh is
randy. He is uh self-regarding. He is
randy as hell.
>> I mean horny.
>> Horny kind of just just you know a
despicable man.
>> And yet kind of like Marty there is an
undertoe of something more profound.
There is grief. He is grieving his
lover. Um, and actually the love
relationship in that book between Mickey
Sabbath and Dranka, his partner, an age
appropriate partner, is one of the great
love stories and their the sex that they
have is actually transcendent
>> in this book.
>> It's transcendent and and the book is
like while
>> incredible. And while on the one hand he
is like embodies all the worst attitudes
towards sex and the most disgusting you
know instrumental attitudes towards sex
he also like really helps us to
understand what sex can be. So this is a
character who contains multitudes. He is
a shameless man who somehow is the
vehicle for really beautiful thinking
about love about sex about spirituality
about grief.
>> Sasha
>> Hall of Shame. I nominate Mickey
Sabbath. N he's in. There's I mean I
don't know. I mean he's like at the
front door when you enter the you come
in.
>> He's in.
>> Uh
>> tell me tell me who you've been thinking
about.
>> Grace Jones in Boomerang.
>> Okay.
>> Plays a character
>> I haven't seen it
>> named John J.
>> Now first of all I should say Boomerang
is a movie full of shameless people.
Mhm.
>> Uh Martin Lawrence.
>> If the coochie's good, everything else
falls into place.
>> Eddie Murphy himself.
>> More than sex with this girl. I dig her.
You know, her spirit and her mind and
everything. She's bad.
>> So why does she take the cake?
>> Because first of all, it's Grace Jones.
But also because in the world of this
movie, which is really about like a kind
of black decorum and a black propriety,
she is really telling the black
respectability politicians among us and
in the world of this movie to like go
jump in a lake. Like, I'm here and y'all
going to have to deal with this cuz I
love my vulgar self. And if you don't
like it, the problem is you and your
uptight bougie etiquette. You can't stop
her
>> from going too far.
>> Yes,
>> she overtakes every single scene she has
in in Boomerang and I think it's like
three scenes. But every time she comes
into the room, like just notice who you
don't see reacting to her because they
are on the other side of that camera
cracking up.
>> No man can turn down this [__]
>> You stop.
>> I don't know any man that can refuse
this [__]
>> Stop showing [__] People are eating in
here. This woman does not care, but in
her not caring, she clearly cares about
having no shame.
>> What do you got?
>> Okay, my my next person I don't know. I
totally stand by but some rose to my
consciousness from like you know like
cultural archives circa 2002 2003
>> an era where the kind of stunt that this
person pulls felt fresh. Oh, I think I
I'm
>> I'm I'm thinking about Ali G.
>> I was going to say is Sasha Barry going
>> I'm thinking about Sasha Bar, but I'm
thinking particularly
>> about the character of Ali Ali G.
>> Okay.
>> Inviting straight lace politicians onto
his show and
the you know commitment to the bit.
Wagwan everinary I with my main man his
name be new Gingrich
>> you know in some cases like pretty
destructive forces in American life who
are responsible for
>> who are also shameless though
>> who are themselves shameless well this
is the point that that that his
shamelessness was a kind of like
>> you know
like die in the veins of their
shamelessness
and how people responded people like Pat
Buchanan or um James Baker, you know, I
mean, the way that they respond to him
also reveals something about themselves.
>> Listen up, me name Buchanan.
Me knows enough things about politics.
Get involved. Mock daddies. Y'all better
realize that nothing be a better way to
get y'all kicks. Westside II.
>> So, there's something about Ali G's
shamelessness that can, you know, h have
the consequence of shaming someone else
or sort of allowing them to like reveal
like it's almost like the more power you
have, the and the more power you feel
yourself to have, the more willing you
might be to play along with this
buffoon.
>> If you becomes president again, what
will you do?
>> I would change the whole country
dramatically. And that's why I'm not
going to be president.
>> Yo.
Yo, for will. I was feeling that, man.
Yo. Yo. Was you mashed or something? You
was like so giggly.
>> Well, I'm uh
>> You had a little puff before?
>> No. You had a little puff before. Sure.
>> Respect. Yo,
>> you you described it perfectly with the
with the dye. Okay.
>> So, he's so he's in.
>> Oh,
>> I forgot to say Grace Jones is in, too.
Clearly, this is the I mean, these
aren't being nominated. I'm bringing two
people and installing them in Okay.
>> the Hall of Fame.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. Um,
I'm going to give you some titles to
some things and you're going to be like,
"What?" But I'm just like, "Hold on."
Um,
Planet Claire,
Rock Lobster,
Dance This Mess around,
Butterbean,
Love Shack,
The B-52s,
>> Have No Shame,
>> The reason that I'm going with these
people is that they don't sound like
anybody else in the history of music.
And part of what you're hearing in their
uniqueness is
a very particular kind of shamelessness,
which is to sound like a thing without
having to declare what the thing is.
Right? This is the band that just sounds
gay to me.
Right? And they know it. Fred Schneider
is just like, "Yeah, hello." It leads
you straight right through the gate that
on the
people
clearly. And yet he's never sung a song
about a man on a B52's record. What he's
doing is expressing that gay energy
through the most absurd possible
channels. And he's accompanied, you
know, vocally by these two women who
have every vocal trick in the book to
match his shamelessness.
>> And these women on Rock Lobster are
doing every fish in the ocean.
>> And it's
I love Patty Leel, but you know what?
She has never done
>> any fish in the ocean. a narwhal.
>> There comes a narwhal.
>> So, some of what we're talking about
with shamelessness is like breaking
rules, but in order to break the rules,
you have to know what the rules are.
>> Oh, yeah. You have to absorb them and
and then like be really willing to
discard them.
>> This band, I just think the B-52s are a
great example of this because there's a
version of this band that sucks, right?
The thing that makes them great is that
they have applied their shamelessness to
their to their mastery of the form.
Right.
>> And the thing that allows them to have
no shame is that they also have dignity.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Which I think brings us
so beautifully back to Marty Supreme.
>> Yeah. You know despite the shamelessness
or or because of the sh or as part of
the shamelessness there is this kind of
inherent dignity. Shamelessness is it's
very aware of the conventions that it is
pouring itself all over.
>> Yes. That it's gasoline. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> And some of the absurdity and sometimes
outright villain of those conventions.
>> Yes. It knows the history. You know the
thing about Marty is like he knows the
history he is both reacting against and
trying to advance forward. Right? This
is that is sort of the power of the
character in a lot of ways is you know
he knows what he's doing and he can't
help himself but to be barreling forward
at all times while dragging this history
with him and insisting that it come.
Beautifully put.
>> Sasha, thanks for doing this.
>> Thank you. This was really fun and uh
I'll talk to you.
>> I want to keep populating this gallery
of shameless. We're going to keep
thinking about that.
>> It it can happen. It can happen monthly
because we we're living in shameless
times. Shamelessness with dignity is
worth celebrating.
>> Shamelessness with dignity.
>> Yeah.
Anyway, that's our show. Hall of Shame.
Hall of Shame. Hall of Shame.